---
hide_table_of_contents: true
custom_edit_url: null
---

# Luos Hardware Abstraction Layer

Luos can work on a single node (localhost), or create a network to enable communication between services located on different nodes. This communication should be defined and hardware-configured to fit the chosen MCU. The files *luos_hal.c* and *luos_hal.h* define all the functions needed by the Luos library to send/receive messages through the bus and initialize all the MCU peripherals.

<<<<<<< HEAD:src/pages/luos-technology/node/luos-hal.md
The file *luos_hal_config.h* file contains a default configuration for a MCU family and can be redefined in a `node_config.h` configuration file to fit your design. The configuration of Luos HAL is described [here](../../hardware-consideration/mcu.md).

## Luos HAL

Here are the hardware functions relative to protocol communication and physical bus in Luos:

- **PORT**: Defines necessary pins, PTP lines, Rx/Tx, enable/disable.
- **TIMER**: Defines timeouts for communication.
- **COM**: Serial bus.
- **CRC**: Validates the accuracy of the messages. CRC can be generated by hardware (Optional, can be software).
- **DMA**: Used to save IRQ time (Optional, can be IT only).
- **FLASH**: Stores services' aliases in the system, and used by [Luos bootloader](../../tools/boot.md).
=======
The file luos_hal_config.h file contains a default configuration for an MCU family and can be redefined in a configuration file to fit your design. The configuration of Luos HAL is described [here](/docs/hardware-consideration/mcu).

## Luos HAL

Lists of all the functions using hardware components relative to protocol communication and physical bus:

- **PORT**: Defines necessary pins, PTP lines, Rx/Tx, enable/disable
- **TIMER**: Defines timeouts for communications
- **COM**: Serial bus
- **CRC**: Validates the accuracy of the messages. CRC can be generated by hardware or software
- **DMA**: Used by default with COM but it can be disabled
- **FLASH**: Stores services' aliases in the system
>>>>>>> docusaurus:docs/luos-technology/node/luos-hal.md
