---
layout: post
title: "Luos drivers"
categories: 2_modules
desc: What is a driver.
order: 2
wip: 1
---
{% include var.md %}
<div class="wip_img"></div>
<blockquote class="warning"><strong>Work in progress</strong><br /><br />We are working on this page...</blockquote><br />

This page details what is a driver, how to create and initialize one, and how to use it.

# What is a driver?
A driver is a type of module. A driver is a module which is link to its own hardware in a Luos architecture and can manage it (send order or retrive values for example). Drivers don't have access to other module but [apps](apps) can access them (send and receive messages) to control their associated hardware. 

> **Note:** Theoretically, we separate the definitions of an app and a driver: they are both modules but they don't have the same functions into a Luos architecture. However, it's practically possible to create a module which can be in the same time an app and a driver, that is, a module which controls hardware and can have access to any other module.

# Driver properties
As a driver is a module, it has the same properties allowing to other modules to recognize and access it:

{{ table_prop_module }}

## Other driver' characteristics



# How to create and initialize a driver
As a driver is a module, it is created and initialized the same way than any module:

A driver is initialized by declaring a variable with a `module_t*` structure type (module pointer), and implementing a void function with the format name `[name_of_module]_init` and void argument.

Inside this function, assign the previous declared variable to the function `luos_module_create(callback, module type, default alias)`, with the following arguments:
 - *callback*: Set the real-time configuration to use (see [Real-time configuration page](rt-config) for more details).
 - *module type*: Set the type of the new module. e.g. `DISTANCE_MOD`, `VOLTAGE_MOD`, etc. 
 - *default alias*: Set the alias by default for the new module. e.g. `MyModule02`.
 
> **Note:** To better define a module as a driver, the type can be one of the [existing driver's types](#driver_types). However, this is an abstract choice because a driver is a module, and the type only helps to know what kind of module you want to create. Also, new types can be created if needed.
 
See the following code as an example:

```c
module_t* module;

void motor_init(void) {
    module_t* module = luos_module_create(rx_btn_cb, CONTROLLED_MOTOR_MOD, "motor_mod");
}
```

> **Note:** According to the real-time configuration you chose, an additional line of code may be necessary. See [Real-time configuration page](rt-config) for more details.

## <a href="driver_types"></a>Driver's types

Here is the list `module_type_t` of existing driver's types. New types can also be created as a list in your `main` file.

    SERVO_MOD // Control servomotors
    COLOR_MOD // Control RGB Leds
    ANGLE_MOD // Control potentiometers
    STATE_MOD // Control states og GPIO pins
    DISTANCE_MOD // Control distance sensors
    VOLTAGE_MOD // Control the voltage of GPIO pins
    DYNAMIXEL_MOD // Control Dynamixel servomotors
    STEPPER_MOD // Control stepper motors
    DCMOTOR_MOD // Control DC motors
    IMU_MOD // Control IMU sensors
    LIGHT_MOD // Control light sensors
    CONTROLLED_MOTOR_MOD // Control DC motors with a Hall-effect sensor and a reducer.
