---
layout: post
title: "Object dictionary"
categories: 2_modules
desc: How object dictionary works and how to use it.
order: 3
wip: 1
---
{% include var.md %}

<div class="wip_img"></div>
<blockquote class="warning"><strong>Work in progress</strong><br /><br />We are working on this page...</blockquote><br />

Luos uses and manages an Object Dictionary (OD) for interoperability between modules. Technologies like [CANOpen or KNX](../others/bus-comparison) use an OD as well.

# What is OD?
An Object Dictionary defines a set of typical objects that can be transmitted through Luos messages. It allows to send these objects with a predefined and adaptated unit (e.g. a value in meters for a distance) or to convert them in other units (e.g. millimeters to micrometers). Concretely, an OD is a library that defines structures and conversion functions.

# How is it managed in Luos?
A specific OD folder containing .h and .c files of each data category and a global `luos_od.h` file including every .h and .c files are needed. All the stored data follows the SI standard.

## Object and types
Each instance in an Object Dictionary is managed like an object and declared as in this example:
```c
linear_position_t linear_position; // Define object linear_position as a linear_position_t type
```

When it’s possible, types are directly mapped from existing type. For example a distance `linear_position_t` is defined as a float, as in this extract from the file `od_linear.h`:
```c
typedef float linear_position_t;
```
The types are listed in the [table summary](#table_summary) at the end of this page.

# Conversions
As many units exist, many conversion functions are available. As a result, they follow **logic naming rules** in order to easily find a desired function without having to search for it.

## Unit conversions
**`to` conversion:** Converts a type to a unit. Format: `[type]_to_[unit]()`

**`from` conversion:** Converts a value with a defined unit into a desired type. Format:  `[type]_from_[unit]()`

Examples: `linear_position_to_mm()`, `angular_speedn_to_tr_s()`, `current_from_ma()`, ...
```c
float linear_position_to_mm(linear_position_t linear_position); // convert the variable linear_position into a mm value.
linear_position_t linear_position_from_mm(float mm); // save a linear_position from a mm value
```
In the previous example, the first line converts a linear position into a mm value. The second line saves a mm value (called `mm`) into a linear position variable.

## Messages conversions
**`to` conversion:** Inserts a desired type into a message. Format: `[type]_to_msg()`

**`from` conversion:** Gets a type from a message. Format: `[type]_from_msg()`

Examples: `power_to_msg()`, `linear_position_to_msg()`, `force_from_msg()`, ...
```c
void linear_position_to_msg(linear_position_t* linear_position, msg_t* msg); // insert the linear_position into the message msg
void linear_position_from_msg(linear_position_t* linear_position, msg_t* msg); // get the linear_position from the message msg
```
In the previous example, the first line inserts a linear position into the message `msg`, and the second one retrive a linear position from the message `msg`.


# <a name="table_summary"></a>Types and units table summary
Here are listed the existing types, 

| Type | Unit | Base type | Available prefix and other units | 
| :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| linear_position | Meter (m) | float | nm, &mu;m, mm, cm, m, km, in, ft, mi
| linear_speed | Meter/s (m/s) | float | mm/s, m/s, km/h, in/s, mi/h
| angular_position | Degree (deg) | float | deg, revolution, rad
| angular_speed | Degree/s (deg/s) | float | deg/s, revolution/s, revolution/min, rad/s
| force | Newton (N) | float | N, kgf, ozf, lbf
| moment | Newton meter (N.m) | float | N.mm, N.cm, N.m, kgf.mm, kgf.cm, kgf.m, ozf.in, lbf.in
| voltage | Volt (V) | float | mV, V
| current | Ampere (A) | float | mA, A
| power | Watt (W) | float | mW, W
| ratio | Percentage (%) | float | percentage
| temperature | Degree celcius (°C) | float | deg_c, deg_f, deg_k
| color | RGB | unsigned char [3] | —

> **Note:** to find out a conversion function, replace the characters `/` or `.` in the units by the character `_`. The character `µ` is replaced by `u`, and `revolution` is replaced by `rev`.
> <br />Examples: convert a linear speed to mm/s: `linear_speed_to_mm_s()`; convert a value in &mu;m to a linear position: `linear_position_from_um()`; convert a value in revolutions/s to an angular speed: `angular_speed_from_rev_s()`;